Invariants Harness - findings and evaluation

I ran:
  javac -d invariants-build src/registration/*.java
  java -cp invariants-build registration.Check

Fixture:
Crowded is CS101 (CRN 10001), worth 3 credits, with capacity 2.
Routine is ENG101 (CRN 10002), worth 3 credits, with capacity 2.
The students are Alice (S001), Ben (S002), and Cara (S003).
The configured max_credits is 18.

Exact sequence of calls in Check.main:
  1. service.register(alice, crowded);  // true
  2. service.register(alice, crowded);  // true
  3. service.register(alice, crowded);  // false; waitlisted
  4. service.register(alice, crowded);  // false; waitlisted again
  5. service.register(ben, routine);    // true
  6. service.register(cara, routine);   // true
  7. service.drop(ben, routine);
  8. service.drop(cara, routine);

Violation 1 - enrollment count:
Calls 1 and 2 cause this violation. Registering Alice a second time succeeds.
Her enrollment list then contains crowded twice, and the offering's count is
2, even though only one distinct student has the offering.

Output from the run:
  1. Enrollment counts:
    - Offering 10001: enrolled count is 2, but 1 distinct student(s) are enrolled.

To prevent this state, the duplicate check must be in the operation that
actually adds an enrollment. Checking only in Check.java would just report
the problem. CourseOffering should own its enrolled students, with the
enrolled count calculated from that collection. Callers should not be able
to change Student's enrollment list or the offering's count separately.

Violation 2 - waitlist:
Calls 1 and 2 fill crowded. Calls 3 and 4 then add Alice to its waitlist
twice, although she is already enrolled. These are normal calls to
RegistrationService.register; no fields were changed directly.

Output from the run:
  3. Waitlists:
    - Offering 10001 waitlist: student S001 appears more than once.
    - Offering 10001 waitlist: student S001 is already enrolled.

The check must be where a student is added to the waitlist. That operation
needs to know both the waitlist and who is already enrolled. Right now
WaitlistManager.add only receives a CRN and student ID, so it cannot make
the full decision. CourseOffering could own both enrolled membership and
the waitlist and permit only valid changes between them.

The other two checks printed:
  2. Credit limits:
    none
  4. Capacity:
    none

The fixture fails two invariant claims (1 and 3). Claim 3 produces two
messages. No message for claims 2 and 4 only means this fixture did not
break them.

Which claims could be made structurally impossible?
For claim 1, keep one set of enrolled student IDs per offering and derive
the count from its size. For claim 3, keep one status per student/offering
pair, so a student cannot be both enrolled and waitlisted or have two
waitlist entries. For claim 4, the offering could own fixed capacity slots
and only fill an empty slot. Any capacity change would also have to
respect the number of occupied slots.

Which claim cannot be solved by data structure alone?
Claim 2 depends on the total credits across a student's courses and the
configured max_credits. A set or list cannot enforce that sum by itself.
Enrollment changes need a credit check, and changing a course's credits
or the configured limit must also be controlled or validated.

What does needing this harness tell us?
Several registration decisions were not hidden behind one owner.
Student.getCurrentEnrollments returns a writable list, and Student.enroll
and setCurrentEnrollments can change membership directly.
CourseOffering.setEnrolled and setCapacity can change the count and limit.
WaitlistManager.add accepts repeated IDs, while getByOffering exposes its
writable map. Course.setCredits and the public Config.settings map can
change the values used in the credit rule. RegistrationService.drop even
decrements enrolled without checking whether the student was removed.
The harness has to compare these separate pieces of state because the
classes currently allow them to disagree.
